Study guide 

2.1.1. Give a brief historical account of the study of cellular neuroanatomy.
Santiago Cajal, using Golgi silver staining method
2.1.2. Name and describe the general functions of the four main parts of a neuron.
Dendrites input, Axon hillock action potential is realized, Axon carries charge, axon terminal transports neurotransmitters
2.1.3. Classify neurons according to both structure and function.
Unipolar have the cell body in the middle of the axon. 
2.1.4. Outline the key components of a synapse and the major steps in neurotransmission.

2.1.5. Describe the four principal types of glial cells and their functions.
Astro cell, looks like a star, support
Microglial, clean up crew 
Schwaan and Oligandrites are Mylenation cells, 
Oligandrites = spinal chord
Schwaan the rest of the body

2.3.1. Describe the cellular structure and organization of the cortex.

2.3.2. Identify the major components of the basal ganglia and the limbic systems, and state some of the behavioral functions of each.

2.3.3. Name the major divisions of the brainstem and midbrain, and identify key functions performed by each.

General Supplemental Learning Objectives
Please note that you do not have to respond to these for the assignment but need to be prepared for exams.
1.	Be able to identify all of the anatomical structures that are listed or illustrated in the text.
2.	Learn the functions of and be able to identify the following structures that are not included in the text (but will be taught in class).  tectum, tegmentum, posterior or lateral horns of the ventricles, septum pellucidum, massa intermedia or interthalamic adhesion, inferior or temporal horns of the ventricles, insula, longitudinal or interhemispheric fissure, optic tract, olfactory tract, inferior temporal gyrus, inferior temporal sulcus, middle temporal gyrus, superior temporal gyrus, superior temporal sulcus.

nuclei are in the Central Nervous System (CNS - brain/spinal cord), while gangliaare in the Peripheral Nervous System (PNS).



